=== Killing Processes

Now that you found the `+dd+` process on Terminal 1, terminate it using
the `+kill+` command. You would typically just manually enter the
process ID after `+kill+`. The process ID is the second column of the
`+ps aux+` output from before. However, to make this command clickable
for each new lab instance the `+pidof+` (__P__rocess *ID of*) command is
used to automatically find the process ID.

[source,bash,subs="+macros,+attributes",role=execute]
----
kill $(pidof dd)
----

There is no output, but switching back to Terminal 2 reveals that the
`+dd+` process has been terminated.

[source,bash,subs="+macros,+attributes",role=execute]
----
ps aux | head -n1 ; ps aux | grep '[d]d '
----

[source,text]
----
USER         PID %CPU %MEM    VSZ   RSS TTY      STAT START   TIME COMMAND
[1]+  Terminated              dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/null
----
The `+kill+` command can send a variety of signals. Calling the command
without any options will default to `+-SIGTERM+`. This command will
inform the process that it is time for it to stop, but allow it to run
any cleanup procedures that it has. This often takes the form of closing
files and freeing memory. In this sense, `+-SIGTERM+` is the graceful
option for terminating a process.

If you instead use the `+kill -SIGKILL+` command, this will instruct the
kernel to immediately stop the process. This prevents any cleanup that
may have otherwise occurred, leaving memory allocated and potentially
leading to corrupted files. Therefore, only use `+-SIGKILL+` as a last
resort.


NOTE: You will also see the `+kill+` signals referred to numerically.
`+-SIGTERM+` is equivalent to `+-15+` and `+-SIGKILL+` is equivalent to
`+-9+`
